content/talks/index.md, before:

---
title: "Talks"
draft: false
---


## Event Sourcing at Dropsource

**Talk at the Triangle Node.js Meetup, May 2016**  
The presentation gave an introduction to Event Sourcing and how we are 
implementing it at Dropsource.

- [Blog](/posts/2016/event-sourcing-presentation/)
- [Slides PDF](/pdfs/event-sourcing-at-dropsource.pdf)

---

## React Intro Class

**A series of courses on React, circa 2016**  
I taught a series of classes introducing React. 
This class gave students hands-on experience using React and Flux. 
We built a real-time chat application which gave students 
a real sense of how to build apps the React way.

- [Blog](/posts/2016/teaching-react-intro-class/)
- [Slides PDF](/pdfs/react-intro-class.pdf)

---

## Codementor sessions

**Consultations on [Codementor](https://www.codementor.io), circa 2015**  
I coached many developers on various technologies, such as JavaScript, Node.js, MongoDB, Angular, etc.

Some reviews from the developers I mentored:

> Fernando is an expert and a gentleman. He immediately identified my needs and worked with me to fully deploy my app.  
> --Jake Tunney


> Fernando is a true mentor. Besides being a great programmer he also has the gift of teaching. Highly recommended!  
> --Izaias


> Fernando was great about being available, about helping me resolve my issue in a way that 
> left me with clean code and also explaining things to me so I could understand and learn.  
> --Sara Ines Calderon


> Fernando is very knowledgeable about the entire FullStack. He provided good recommendations 
> for our server architecture in NodeJS/MongoDB.  
> --Sathish

> Brilliant  
> --Jean-Michel

Here is my [Codementor profile](https://www.codementor.io/@fertrig).

---

## Scaling Kanban at Ultimate Software

**Talk at the Agile Conference, circa 2010**  
During my time at Ultimate Software (now [UKG](https://www.ukg.com/)), I coached several 
teams on Agile Development methodologies. Based on that work I gave a presentation at 
the Agile Conference on implementing and scaling Kanban at a 
large development organization. The talk also focused on the migration 
of 30 Scrum team to Kanban. 

The talk was heavily attended and I got great questions from the audience.

The slides are copyrighted by Ultimate Software, but here is an InfoQ article 
which acknowledges my work on this area: 
[Ultimate Kanban: Scaling Agile without Frameworks at Ultimate Software](https://www.infoq.com/articles/kanban-scaling-agile-ultimate/)

---

## Trap.Net: a Realization of Transparent Shaping in .Net

**Talk at a Software Engineering conference in Boston, circa 2007**  
This talk was based on my master thesis which consisted of modifying the behavior
of long-running programs. These programs couldn't be restarted thus they received
new instructions dynamically at run time which altered their original behavior.

The research paper on this work can be found here: [Trap.Net: a Realization of Transparent Shaping in .Net](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/220344376_TrapNet_a_Realization_of_Transparent_Shaping_in_Net).

Commit message:

monarch talks post and images

content/talks/index.md, after:

---
title: "Talks"
draft: false
---

## Monarch Talks in NYC, DC, Lima and Charlotte
From July 2023 to October 2023 I gave several Monarch talks to groups of Flutter
developers. This was an amazing experience. The blog post below has more details 
and pictures of the talks.

- [Blog](/posts/2023/monarch-talks)

## Event Sourcing at Dropsource

**Talk at the Triangle Node.js Meetup, May 2016**  
The presentation gave an introduction to Event Sourcing and how we are 
implementing it at Dropsource.

- [Blog](/posts/2016/event-sourcing-presentation/)
- [Slides PDF](/pdfs/event-sourcing-at-dropsource.pdf)

---

## React Intro Class

**A series of courses on React, circa 2016**  
I taught a series of classes introducing React. 
This class gave students hands-on experience using React and Flux. 
We built a real-time chat application which gave students 
a real sense of how to build apps the React way.

- [Blog](/posts/2016/teaching-react-intro-class/)
- [Slides PDF](/pdfs/react-intro-class.pdf)

---

## Codementor sessions

**Consultations on [Codementor](https://www.codementor.io), circa 2015**  
I coached many developers on various technologies, such as JavaScript, Node.js, MongoDB, Angular, etc.

Some reviews from the developers I mentored:

> Fernando is an expert and a gentleman. He immediately identified my needs and worked with me to fully deploy my app.  
> --Jake Tunney


> Fernando is a true mentor. Besides being a great programmer he also has the gift of teaching. Highly recommended!  
> --Izaias


> Fernando was great about being available, about helping me resolve my issue in a way that 
> left me with clean code and also explaining things to me so I could understand and learn.  
> --Sara Ines Calderon


> Fernando is very knowledgeable about the entire FullStack. He provided good recommendations 
> for our server architecture in NodeJS/MongoDB.  
> --Sathish

> Brilliant  
> --Jean-Michel

Here is my [Codementor profile](https://www.codementor.io/@fertrig).

---

## Scaling Kanban at Ultimate Software

**Talk at the Agile Conference, circa 2010**  
During my time at Ultimate Software (now [UKG](https://www.ukg.com/)), I coached several 
teams on Agile Development methodologies. Based on that work I gave a presentation at 
the Agile Conference on implementing and scaling Kanban at a 
large development organization. The talk also focused on the migration 
of 30 Scrum team to Kanban. 

The talk was heavily attended and I got great questions from the audience.

The slides are copyrighted by Ultimate Software, but here is an InfoQ article 
which acknowledges my work on this area: 
[Ultimate Kanban: Scaling Agile without Frameworks at Ultimate Software](https://www.infoq.com/articles/kanban-scaling-agile-ultimate/)

---

## Trap.Net: a Realization of Transparent Shaping in .Net

**Talk at a Software Engineering conference in Boston, circa 2007**  
This talk was based on my master thesis which consisted of modifying the behavior
of long-running programs. These programs couldn't be restarted thus they received
new instructions dynamically at run time which altered their original behavior.

The research paper on this work can be found here: [Trap.Net: a Realization of Transparent Shaping in .Net](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/220344376_TrapNet_a_Realization_of_Transparent_Shaping_in_Net).
