static/resume.md, before:

# Fernando Trigoso
@fertrig • fertrig@gmail.com  • [trigoso.xyz](https://trigoso.xyz)   
[linkedin.com/in/fernandotrigoso](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fernandotrigoso/)     
Raleigh, NC   

## Summary
Senior Software Engineer, Principal Developer, and Software Architect. 
A rare talent possessing deep technical expertise, strong problem solving skills, and discipline. 
Delivering professional solutions since 2005.

## Professional Skills
Rich history leading the development of all aspects of complex software systems. Full stack development experience building mobile apps, web applications, developer tools, cloud-based APIs, SaaS products, and open source projects.  

Extensive experience building mobile applications in iOS and Android using Dart, Flutter, and Swift; web applications using React, Node, and Javascript; and desktop applications using Swift and C++.  

Seasoned expertise researching and designing new technical solutions; deploying, monitoring, and instrumenting software systems; designing new experiences; testing software systems and components.  

Extensive track record leading software teams; experienced speaker, mentor, and agile coach; proven track record working remotely; excellent communication skills.  

Fast learner and very adaptable; emotionally competent with high levels of intuition, intelligence, and creativity.  

## Work Experience
### Synco
_Lead Software Engineer • June 2024 - Present • [teamsynco.com](https://teamsynco.com)_

**Led the development of a real-time chat application with offline functionality.**  
**Built applications for iOS, Android, and the web using Flutter, Swift, and Typescript.**  

Built UI features in iOS and Android using Flutter.  
Developed mobile native integrations using Flutter method channels, Swift, and Kotlin.  
Learned Swift and SwiftUI to develop an iOS Share Extension.  
Developed a WebSockets client using Typescript.  

Worked with GraphQL clients on web, Flutter, Swift.  
Used Riverpod in Flutter.  
Worked with Isar, a mobile NoSQL database.  
Used React, Apollo, GraphQL in the web.  
Implemented new features behind feature flags.  
Instrumented mobile device logging and remote error reporting.

Collaborated with product team to validate product design.  
Worked with designers to clarify requirements.  
Implemented and promoted Apple's Human Interface Guidelines.  

Researched and developed the integration between a Flutter app and an iOS share extension.   
Managed hard memory requirements imposed by iOS.  
Used AI coding assistants: Github Copilot and Cursor.  

Fully remote role, worked with 3 other senior developers, reported directly to CTO.  
Exceeded very high expectations.  

### Monarch
_Principal Developer • April 2020 - June 2024 • [monarchapp.io](https://monarchapp.io)_

**Created and built Monarch, an open source developer tool.**  
**Built desktop apps and command-line tools for macOS, Windows, and Linux using Dart, Flutter, Swift, and C++.**  

Designed and developed the Monarch developer experience using first principles.    
Designed the Monarch architecture within tight budget and technical constraints.  
Researched and prototyped very difficult technical solutions.  

Used Dart and Flutter to build various components: CLI, build scripts, web server, packages, gRPC clients and servers, code generation, samples, etc.   
Used low-level APIs from both Flutter and the Flutter Engine.
Learned Swift and C++ to program features on all 3 major operating systems. Learned UIKIt on macOS, Win32 on Windows, and GTK on Linux.    

Developed a build system using Dart, bash, CMake, etc.; which runs on macOS, Windows, and Linux; it uses all Flutter SDK versions. This build system optimized my development time, saving me hundreds of hours.  
Built a backend API to manage Monarch versions and binaries using Dart and PostgreSQL.   
Deployed Monarch binaries, assets, and components to AWS and Heroku.  
Released new versions of Monarch regularly.  

Directed all product content creation including: writing website copy, documentation, video scripts, presentation scripts, blogs, and social media posts.
Presented Monarch to developer groups internationally.  
Managed a developer contractor and content writer.  
Maintained open source project: wrote contribution guides, communicated with the community, addressed and prioritized issues, reviewed pull requests.  

Implemented and maintained: Monarch’s website using Docusaurus and React; analytics using Elasticsearch, Javascript and D3.  
Fully remote role.

### Dropsource
_Technical Lead • July 2015 - March 2020 • [www.dropsource.com/platform](https://www.dropsource.com/platform)_

**Built a complex visual code editor in the browser using React and Node.js.**  
**Led the team responsible for building the front-end and middleware components of the platform.**  

Used React and Flux to build the front-end using a single page application model.  
Used Node.js to build the code editor API.   
Designed an Event Sourcing (or CQRS) architecture to store the application's data.  
Implemented graph data models from the time-series of events.  

Worked within a complex software system which spans multiple components, servers, and programming languages.  
Managed the deployment of all system components by coordinating with all team members.  
Configured Jenkins to build and test various system components.  

Ran retrospectives and introduced best practices to the rest of the team.  
Collaborated with designers and product managers to create requirements for new features.  

### marGo
_Senior Software Engineer • April 2014 - May 2015 • [margo.me](https://margo.me)_

**Built a highly scalable cloud distributed system using Javascript, C#, ASP.NET MVC, and Xamarin.**  

Used Event Sourcing to record events in a time-series fashion in Cassandra.   
Used Redis for caching of data models; and queue services, like SQS, to scale out the system.   
Developed the backend of the system using C# and ASP.NET MVC.   
Built the web front end using Javascript and Knockout; and a mobile app using Xamarin.  

Configured the system to be highly available in AWS.  
Performed zero-downtime deployments.  
Integrated with various cloud services like SendGrid, Twilio, PubNub, etc.  
Introduced Kanban and unit test practices to the team, drastically improving product quality.   

Worked hand-in-hand with the CTO.

### Ultimate Software
_Senior Software Engineer • Feb 2007 - April 2014 • [www.ukg.com](https://www.ukg.com)_

**Developed web solutions using C#, ASP.NET, WCF, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL.**  
**Led several software teams inside a large enterprise SaaS software system.**   

Built integrations between products using a service-oriented architecture.
Worked extensively with unit test frameworks.

Coordinated efforts with teams in other areas such as UX, security, performance, etc.  
Reviewer of the technical level of other engineers across the entire organization.  
Ran daily stand-ups and retrospectives.  
Led a team who received several bonus awards due to high performance.  
Worked closely with product managers and designers.  
Worked remotely for 3 years.

### Ultimate Software
_Process Engineer Manager • Jan 2010 - Aug 2010_

**Worked with several team leads to improve their team's performance.**  

Transitioned the company's 30 Scrum teams over to Kanban.  
Attended several Agile training sessions.   
Trained 30 teams on Kanban principles and implemented department-level process initiatives.  

Coached 3 major teams in agile methodology.   
Worked with team leads to improve their process.  
Led a 30-person team.  

### Strategic Healthcare Management Systems 
_Software Architect_ • _2006 - 2008_

Designed and developed an entire healthcare insurance management system using .NET, C# and SQL.

### General Medical Applications (gMed, Inc.) 
*Software Engineer* • *2005 - 2006*

Developed new functionality and supported existing functionality using ASP.NET and SQL.

## Education
### Masters in Computer Science 
Florida International University  
Aug 2005 - Apr 2007  
Thesis in Software Adaptability, hot-swapping code at run-time.  

### Bachelors in Computer Engineering 
Florida International University  
May 2003 - Apr 2005  
Graduated Summa Cum Laude  

## Talks
Presented Monarch in New York City, Washington D.C., Lima, and Charlotte, Fall 2023.  
Presented Event Sourcing at the Triangle Node.js Meetup, May 2016.  
Taught an Intro to React course, 2016.  
Presented Scaling Kanban at the Agile Conference, 2010.  
Presented Trap.Net at a Software Engineering conference in Boston, 2007.  

For more details, visit: [trigoso.xyz/talks](https://trigoso.xyz/talks/). 

## Other Highlights
One of ten international recruits accepted into the United States Air Force Academy.

Commit message:

Adds Tissue Health Plus experience

static/resume.md, after:

# Fernando Trigoso
@fertrig • fertrig@gmail.com  • [trigoso.xyz](https://trigoso.xyz)   
[linkedin.com/in/fernandotrigoso](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fernandotrigoso/)     
Raleigh, NC   

## Summary
Senior Software Engineer, Principal Developer, and Software Architect. 
A rare talent possessing deep technical expertise, strong problem solving skills, and discipline. 
Delivering professional solutions since 2005.

## Professional Skills
Rich history leading the development of all aspects of complex software systems. Full stack development experience building mobile apps, web applications, developer tools, cloud-based APIs, SaaS products, and open source projects.  

Extensive experience building mobile applications in iOS and Android using Dart, Flutter, and Swift; web applications using React, Node, and Javascript; and desktop applications using Swift and C++.  

Seasoned expertise researching and designing new technical solutions; deploying, monitoring, and instrumenting software systems; designing new experiences; testing software systems and components.  

Extensive track record leading software teams; experienced speaker, mentor, and agile coach; proven track record working remotely; excellent communication skills.  

Fast learner and very adaptable; emotionally competent with high levels of intuition, intelligence, and creativity.  

## Work Experience
### Tissue Health Plus
_Lead Software Engineer • January 2025 - Present • [tissuehealthplus.com](https://www.tissuehealthplus.com)_

Tech lead for a team of 15 software professionals.
Responsible for building UI features in a web application using Flutter Web, Riverpod, and gRPC.
Designed new features, backend APIs, UI components, and CI/CD pipelines.
Implemented reusable components and services: Pluto Grid, Auth0, etc.
Reworked large areas of the product due to performance and quality issues.

Responsible for establishing new patterns and coding best practices for other developers.
Defines technical goals for entire team.
Provides guidance and feedback to frontend and backend developers.
Removed major impediments: solved multiple repo problems, identified issues with processes and resources in the team.

Prepares and leads demos to stakeholders.
Successful collaboration with UX designers, Product Managers, and QA testers.
Conducts interviews of frontend and backend developers.
Thought leader in the company, strong influence in product direction and processes.

Contributes to the system architecture which includes a web app, a mobile app, AI agents, and data integrations.
Contributes to the Event Sourcing architecture of the system.
Responsible for several cross-team initiatives. 
Using various developer and AI tools: Cursor, Claude, Monarch.

Fully remote role, worked with other tech leads and offshore developers.
Receive consistently positive feedback from stakeholders and company leaders.

### Synco
_Lead Software Engineer • June 2024 - December 2024 • [teamsynco.com](https://teamsynco.com)_

**Led the development of a real-time chat application with offline functionality.**  
**Built applications for iOS, Android, and the web using Flutter, Swift, and Typescript.**  

Built UI features in iOS and Android using Flutter.  
Developed mobile native integrations using Flutter method channels, Swift, and Kotlin.  
Learned Swift and SwiftUI to develop an iOS Share Extension.  
Developed a WebSockets client using Typescript.  

Worked with GraphQL clients on web, Flutter, Swift.  
Used Riverpod in Flutter.  
Worked with Isar, a mobile NoSQL database.  
Used React, Apollo, GraphQL in the web.  
Implemented new features behind feature flags.  
Instrumented mobile device logging and remote error reporting.

Collaborated with product team to validate product design.  
Worked with designers to clarify requirements.  
Implemented and promoted Apple's Human Interface Guidelines.  

Researched and developed the integration between a Flutter app and an iOS share extension.   
Managed hard memory requirements imposed by iOS.  
Used AI coding assistants: Github Copilot and Cursor.  

Fully remote role, worked with 3 other senior developers, reported directly to CTO.  
Exceeded very high expectations.  

### Monarch
_Principal Developer • April 2020 - June 2024 • [monarchapp.io](https://monarchapp.io)_

**Created and built Monarch, an open source developer tool.**  
**Built desktop apps and command-line tools for macOS, Windows, and Linux using Dart, Flutter, Swift, and C++.**  

Designed and developed the Monarch developer experience using first principles.    
Designed the Monarch architecture within tight budget and technical constraints.  
Researched and prototyped very difficult technical solutions.  

Used Dart and Flutter to build various components: CLI, build scripts, web server, packages, gRPC clients and servers, code generation, samples, etc.   
Used low-level APIs from both Flutter and the Flutter Engine.
Learned Swift and C++ to program features on all 3 major operating systems. Learned UIKIt on macOS, Win32 on Windows, and GTK on Linux.    

Developed a build system using Dart, bash, CMake, etc.; which runs on macOS, Windows, and Linux; it uses all Flutter SDK versions. This build system optimized my development time, saving me hundreds of hours.  
Built a backend API to manage Monarch versions and binaries using Dart and PostgreSQL.   
Deployed Monarch binaries, assets, and components to AWS and Heroku.  
Released new versions of Monarch regularly.  

Directed all product content creation including: writing website copy, documentation, video scripts, presentation scripts, blogs, and social media posts.
Presented Monarch to developer groups internationally.  
Managed a developer contractor and content writer.  
Maintained open source project: wrote contribution guides, communicated with the community, addressed and prioritized issues, reviewed pull requests.  

Implemented and maintained: Monarch’s website using Docusaurus and React; analytics using Elasticsearch, Javascript and D3.  
Fully remote role.

### Dropsource
_Technical Lead • July 2015 - March 2020 • [www.dropsource.com/platform](https://www.dropsource.com/platform)_

**Built a complex visual code editor in the browser using React and Node.js.**  
**Led the team responsible for building the front-end and middleware components of the platform.**  

Used React and Flux to build the front-end using a single page application model.  
Used Node.js to build the code editor API.   
Designed an Event Sourcing (or CQRS) architecture to store the application's data.  
Implemented graph data models from the time-series of events.  

Worked within a complex software system which spans multiple components, servers, and programming languages.  
Managed the deployment of all system components by coordinating with all team members.  
Configured Jenkins to build and test various system components.  

Ran retrospectives and introduced best practices to the rest of the team.  
Collaborated with designers and product managers to create requirements for new features.  

### marGo
_Senior Software Engineer • April 2014 - May 2015 • [margo.me](https://margo.me)_

**Built a highly scalable cloud distributed system using Javascript, C#, ASP.NET MVC, and Xamarin.**  

Used Event Sourcing to record events in a time-series fashion in Cassandra.   
Used Redis for caching of data models; and queue services, like SQS, to scale out the system.   
Developed the backend of the system using C# and ASP.NET MVC.   
Built the web front end using Javascript and Knockout; and a mobile app using Xamarin.  

Configured the system to be highly available in AWS.  
Performed zero-downtime deployments.  
Integrated with various cloud services like SendGrid, Twilio, PubNub, etc.  
Introduced Kanban and unit test practices to the team, drastically improving product quality.   

Worked hand-in-hand with the CTO.

### Ultimate Software
_Senior Software Engineer • Feb 2007 - April 2014 • [www.ukg.com](https://www.ukg.com)_

**Developed web solutions using C#, ASP.NET, WCF, JavaScript, jQuery, SQL.**  
**Led several software teams inside a large enterprise SaaS software system.**   

Built integrations between products using a service-oriented architecture.
Worked extensively with unit test frameworks.

Coordinated efforts with teams in other areas such as UX, security, performance, etc.  
Reviewer of the technical level of other engineers across the entire organization.  
Ran daily stand-ups and retrospectives.  
Led a team who received several bonus awards due to high performance.  
Worked closely with product managers and designers.  
Worked remotely for 3 years.

### Ultimate Software
_Process Engineer Manager • Jan 2010 - Aug 2010_

**Worked with several team leads to improve their team's performance.**  

Transitioned the company's 30 Scrum teams over to Kanban.  
Attended several Agile training sessions.   
Trained 30 teams on Kanban principles and implemented department-level process initiatives.  

Coached 3 major teams in agile methodology.   
Worked with team leads to improve their process.  
Led a 30-person team.  

### Strategic Healthcare Management Systems 
_Software Architect_ • _2006 - 2008_

Designed and developed an entire healthcare insurance management system using .NET, C# and SQL.

### General Medical Applications (gMed, Inc.) 
*Software Engineer* • *2005 - 2006*

Developed new functionality and supported existing functionality using ASP.NET and SQL.

## Education
### Masters in Computer Science 
Florida International University  
Aug 2005 - Apr 2007  
Thesis in Software Adaptability, hot-swapping code at run-time.  

### Bachelors in Computer Engineering 
Florida International University  
May 2003 - Apr 2005  
Graduated Summa Cum Laude  

## Talks
Presented Monarch in New York City, Washington D.C., Lima, and Charlotte, Fall 2023.  
Presented Event Sourcing at the Triangle Node.js Meetup, May 2016.  
Taught an Intro to React course, 2016.  
Presented Scaling Kanban at the Agile Conference, 2010.  
Presented Trap.Net at a Software Engineering conference in Boston, 2007.  

For more details, visit: [trigoso.xyz/talks](https://trigoso.xyz/talks/). 

## Other Highlights
One of ten international recruits accepted into the United States Air Force Academy.
